Original Recipe:

1 large egg
3/4 cup dark brown sugar, packed (light brown sugar may be substitued)
1/2 cup coconut oil, in liquid state (I have not tried, but canola or vegetable oil may likely be substituted)
1/3 cup unsulphered molasses (I used robust molasses; light or medium may be used; blackstrap will likely be too pungent)
2 tablespoons vanilla extract (yes tablespoons, not teaspoons)
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
pinch salt, optional and to taste
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
Cinnamon-Sugar Coating
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1 heaping teaspoon cinnamon

DIRECTIONS:

Cookies -
1. To the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment 
(or use large mixing bowl and hand mixer; or simply whisk together in a 
large bowl), combine the egg, brown sugar, coconut oil (measure like you’d
measure vegetable or olive oil; you need 1/2 cup of liquid-state coconut 
oil; if your coconut oil is in a solid state, microwave enough so you get 
1/2 cup liquid-state coconut oil), molasses, vanilla, and beat on medium-high 
speed until well-mixed, smooth, and glossy about 4 minutes.

2. Stop, scrape down the sides of the bowl, and add the cinnamon, ginger, 
cloves, nutmeg, optional salt, and beat on medium-high speed until combined 
and smooth, about 1 minute.

3. Stop, scrape down the sides of the bowl, and add the flour, baking soda, and 
mix until just combined, about 1 minute.

4. Using a medium 2-inch cookie scoop, form heaping two tablespoon mounds 
(I made 17). Place mounds on a large plate, cover with plasticwrap, and 
refrigerate for at least 3 hours, or up to 5 days, before baking. Dough will 
be very soft, mushy, limp, and is not suitable for baking; it must be chilled 
so the coconut oil re-solidfies. Do not bake with warm dough because cookies 
will spread and bake thinner and flatter.

5. Preheat oven to 350F, line baking sheets with Silpats, or spray with cooking
spray; set aside.

Cinnamon-Sugar Coating – 
6. Add granulated sugar and cinnamon to a small bowl 
and stir to combine.

7. Roll each ball of dough through the coating, liberally coating all sides. 
After all cookies have been coated, I like to go back and double-dip each 
mound, to get an extra-thick coating.

8. Place coated mounds on baking sheets, spaced at least 2 inches apart (I 
bake 8 cookies per sheet). Bake for 8 to 9 minutes, or until edges have 
set and tops are just beginning to set, even if undercooked and soft center. 
Do not bake longer than 9 minutes for soft cookies because they firm up as 
they cool; bake for 9-10 minutes if you like firmer cookies (The cookies 
shown in the photos were baked with dough that had been chilled overnight, 
allowed to come to room temp for 10 minutes while rolling them through the 
coating mixture, and were baked for 8 1/2 minutes). Allow cookies to cool on 
baking sheets for about 5 minutes before removing and transferring to a rack 
to finish cooling.

9. Store cookies airtight at room temperature for up to 1 week, or in the freezer 
for up to 4 months. Alternatively, unbaked cookie dough can be stored airtight 
in the refrigerator for up to 5 days or in the freezer for up to 4 months, so 
consider baking only as many cookies as desired and save the remaining dough 
to be baked in the future when desired. Do not roll cookies through cinnamon-sugar 
mixture until you plan to bake them.

General:
https://blog.kingarthurflour.com/2016/03/14/cookie-chemistry-2/

Sara's Molasses Cookies:
https://www.averiecooks.com/soft-molasses-coconut-oil-crinkle-cookies/

Excellent cookies.

When Sara made them, they were a bit cakey for my taste, but crazy good flavor.
